Google Analytics, is an essential platform that can help you to
understand and track how users interact with your website.
In this introductory course,
we will walk you through the basics of using Google Analytics data.
At the end of this course,
you will have a good working knowledge of Google Analytics and how it
can help you evaluate a website's performance and audience.
In the courses that follow,
we will go deeper into how you set up your Google Analytics instance,
segmentation, as well as specialized aspects of the tool.
Before we jump in and dive deep,
let's first gets oriented on the basics.
If you're already familiar with Google Analytics,
you may find that you can go through the lessons in this first course pretty quickly.
Google Analytics, is a powerful platform that
can inform everything from the health of your product,
to how best to market to a particular audience.
To get a true sense and appreciation of the power of this tool,
you need to dig in and use it.
In this course, you will have the opportunity to get your hands
dirty in actual data in a real Google Analytics account.
This course is designed for students with or without experience in Google Analytics.
We've positioned the course from a digital marketers perspective,
to ground the experience in practical applications.
We will approach this in a few steps that will help you not to get lost in the data.
Here is what you'll learn.
First, we will look at how a Google Analytics account is set up,
as well as some common definitions.
Then, you'll learn how to evaluate the visitors that come to your site.
Who are they and how many of them are coming?
Next, we'll focus on where those visitors came from.
Which marketing channels helped you to attract them to
your site and how to find all of this information.
Then, you'll learn how to evaluate user behavior on
your site and to determine if it aligns with your business goals.
Finally, you'll learn how to measure whether you were successful
at getting people to the action or conversion you wanted from them.
As you go through the scores,
you'll see that these steps align with how Google Analytics is structured.
We will practice everything along the way in
an actual Google Analytics account for the Google Merchandise Store.
The Google Merchandise Store,
is an online store where you can buy Google branded goods.
Google allows us to access the Google Analytics account for training and education.
Let's have a look at how you can access this account
yourself and start evaluating the data.
To get the most out of this course,
you will need to get access to the Google Analytics Merchandise Store account.
Don't worry, accessing the account is easy and it's free.